​
FACULTY OF COMPUTER AND MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES​
UNIVERSITI TEKNOLOGI MARA​
SHAH ALAM
BACHELOR OF COMPUTER SCIENCE (HONS.)
NETCENTRIC COMPUTING
ICT602​
(MOBILE TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT)​
​
​
GROUP PROJECT
Kort – Sports Court Booking Management System​
​
PREPARED BY: GROUP 2​
NO.

NAME

STUDENT ID

1.

MUHAMMAD AQEEF BIN AZHAR

2023414888

2.

MUHAMMAD REDHA BIN ABDUL RAHIM

2023213148

3.

ISMIE ZULAIQHA BINTI ZAINAL

2023268474

4.

NURUL IMAN BINTI SAHROLNIZAN

2023415094

​
CLASS: CDCS2515B​
​
SUBMISSION DATE: 30TH JANUARY 2026
PREPARED FOR: DR. NORKHUSHAINI BT AWANG

TABLE OF CONTENTS

NO. ​ ​

​

​

​

​

CONTENT​

​

​

​

​

PAGE

1.0

INTRODUCTION​

2

2.0

PROBLEM STATEMENT​

2

3.0

OBJECTIVES​

4

4.0

TARGET USER​

4

5.0

FEATURES OF THE APPLICATION​

6

5.1

INTEGRATED LAB ACTIVITIES​

6

5.2

ADDITIONAL FEATURES​

9

6.0

LIMITATIONS OF THE APPLICATION​

11

7.0

USER INTERFACE​

12

8.0

REFLECTION​

22

8.1

CHALLENGES​

22

8.2

LESSONS LEARNED​

22

9.0

CONCLUSION​

23

10.0

REFERENCES​

24

11.0

APPENDICES​

24

​

1

1.0 INTRODUCTION
With modern living creating the need for efficient systems to support daily
activities, one major element of this new culture is the use of mobile apps. Mobile
applications provide quick access to services that, in the past, would have been handled
manually but can now all be found on smartphones, as the pace of technology has
developed rapidly. An example of these services that are commonly used by students,
employees and the general public are local recreational sports facilities (badminton,
futsal, tennis courts, etc.). However, making a reservation to use a sports facility has
typically been completed using walk-in or phone reservations, or via text message
methods.
Kort is a mobile app developed using Android Studio which enables the user to
have a more structured/streamlined approach to reserving sport courts than what was
traditionally used. Users will be able to access a listing of the types of sport facilities
available, submit their reservations and access their reservation history with a single tap
instead of depending on a manual process. As well, the application is designed to send
reminders to users about their reservation confirmations and future reservation
schedules.
Kort’s goal is to create a better overall experience for the user by limiting the
number of conflicts with regard to reservations, tracking reservations better and
providing a more convenient method of reserving sport facilities for those that use them
regularly.
​
2.0 PROBLEM STATEMENT
The way that sports centres operate and book sports courts are still very
human-based, with many sports being booked by walking in, calling them up, or sending
them a text through WhatsApp, etc. The traditional booking systems of sports courts
through these human-based methods create operational inefficiencies such as double
bookings, no uncertainty about when courts are available or where bookings are, and
the potential to lose the booking altogether for both the user and sports centre facility
administrators. Sports centres also rely on human coordination, so if there is a lack of

2

proper structure in how they book their courts, the potential for errors will be higher
(Laudon & Laudon, 2020).
Users that want to use manual sports court bookings also have difficulty checking
on real-time availability on the courts. Students and modern-day working adults are
typically busy and may have trouble visiting sports centres in person or constantly calling
them to confirm their bookings. If a facility does not have a digital platform, then that
facility will not be able to email the users confirmation of their booking and automatically
track their bookings, which increases the users' chances of missing a reservation
(Kumar & Sharma, 2021).
Sporting facilities administrators are required to book their use of facility space by
physically writing down on paper their bookings which results in the administrative load
to maintain similar records and as a result, operational inefficiencies. Furthermore, there
is no centralised digital booking system for administrators to keep track of this
information and courts. Prior research has shown that using mobile-based reservation
systems will enhance the accuracy of scheduling, the consistency of data and the
satisfaction of users through automating the process of booking and providing
notifications (Pressman & Maxim, 2020).
Thus, there is a need for a mobile sports court booking application to provide a
consistent method to complete bookings of sporting facilities, with access to centralised
data storage, maintaining bookings history throughout the sporting facility lifetime, and
providing instant notifications, via the proposed Kort application, to users via the
proposed Android-based application to reduce reliance on manual processes in creating
and maintaining reservations, improve the overall user experience and reduce booking
conflicts.

3

3.0 OBJECTIVES​
1.​ To provide a mobile booking platform that allows users to select sports courts and
make bookings easily through a structured booking process.
2.​ To enable users to store and view their booking history using offline database
storage for better booking tracking and reference.
3.​ To let the system sends booking confirmation messages together with reminder
notifications to users through its automated notification system which helps
prevent users from missing their scheduled bookings.
4.​ To provide a digital booking management system helps to eliminate double
booking and scheduling problems and lost booking information which currently
affect manual booking processes.

4.0 TARGET USER
Kort is designed for a wide range of users which offers court reservation service
through its user-friendly design which functions as an organized system for users who
need to reserve sports facilities at the sports center. The application provides users with
an improved booking experience which exceeds the functionality of traditional booking
methods that include walk-in access, phone reservations, and messaging services. The
target users for this application include the following groups:
a) General Sports Users
General sports users are individuals who frequently participate in sports
activities such as badminton, futsal, tennis, pickleball, and other recreational
games. These users can reserve courts to play sports for various purposes which
include their personal enjoyment and fitness training and social matches and
official practice sessions. Through Kort users can make faster court reservations

4

while they maintain an organized system which lets them view their current
bookings and past booking records.
b) Students
Students are one of the key target users because they often look for
sports venues to play with friends, join recreational activities, or organize social
gatherings and group events. Students prefer a quick and easy booking process
because they face busy schedules which reduce their free time between classes
and they need to handle unexpected events during their day. With Kort, students
can conveniently book a court through their mobile phone without needing to
queue at the sports centre or contact staff manually. The system improves
booking efficiency while encouraging students to maintain active lifestyles
together with their obligation to lead balanced lives in their daily activities.
c) Working Adults
Working adults are also suitable users for Kort because they may want to
book sports courts after working hours for exercise, stress relief, and maintaining
a healthy lifestyle. Staff members prefer a booking system which they can access
easily without needing to confirm their reservations through phone calls or
physical visits. The Kort application provides a more convenient solution for
working adults because they can make bookings and receive confirmation
notifications while keeping track of their reservations for future reference.
d) Sports Clubs and Teams
Sports clubs and teams need regular training and practice match times,
which require them to establish permanent booking schedules. The groups need
to book courts for their activities which they will do either weekly or monthly, so
they require a dependable system that will help them prevent any scheduling
conflicts. Kort which offers clubs and teams court booking functions enables them
to handle their booking information while protecting themselves against double
booking incidents.

5

e) Facility Administrators / Sports Centre Management
Facility administrators refer to the staff responsible for managing the
sports centre operations such as monitoring court schedules, confirming
bookings, and maintaining booking records. Although the main focus of Kort is
the user booking process, the application can also support sports centre
management by improving booking organization and ensuring that booking data
is properly recorded. This helps administrators reduce manual workload and
manage court usage more effectively.

5.0 FEATURES OF THE APPLICATION
5.1 INTEGRATED LAB ACTIVITIES
In this project, our proposed Android application Kort has integrated four lab
activities that have been completed throughout the semester.
a)​ Layout & UI Design (Lab 2)
The user interface is one of the most important aspects of any mobile
application because it determines how users interact with the system. In Kort,
Lab 2 is implemented through the design of multiple screens and navigation flow.
The application uses XML layout files in Android Studio to create a structured
design and consistent visual elements throughout its design.
The application contains user interface components which include buttons
and text fields and images and navigation elements. The system enables users
to transition effortlessly between multiple screens including the splash screen
and login page and registration page and main dashboard and court selection
page and booking details page and booking confirmation page and booking
history page. The application provides an easy-to-use interface which delivers a
good experience to all users.

6

b)​ Offline Database (Lab 3)
One of the main features of Kort is the ability to store local data on a
device using an offline database. This allows users to access their booking
records regardless of whether or not they have access to the Internet, as proven
by using SQLite to implement Lab 3.
When users confirm their bookings, the details of that booking including
the type of sport that is booked for a court number, the date and time of the
booking and the status of that booking will be recorded in the local SQLite
database. To view prior reservations, users can access the booking history page
which accesses data directly out of the SQLite database. The reliability of
tracking of the bookings will be improved with the storing of the booking records
in offline mode, allowing users to always record their sports bookings, even when
the user does not have access to an active internet connection.
c)​ Online Database (Lab 4)
Mobile apps that use an online database can save user info on a central
server. This makes it easier to find anything they have entered or done
previously, when they log in from any of their devices. In the Kort app, Lab 4 is
implemented by using Google Firebase to provide a cloud solution to store all
user registration information and bookings. This way, the app can provide more
effective management of their data compared to if they worked entirely on local
resources.
User registration info is stored in a secure manner through the use of
Firebase Authentication. Booking data is stored in the Firebase database when a
user completes a booking on the booking page. Therefore, users can access
their booking information regardless of what device they originally created it on.
Google Firebase provides increased reliability of data, reduces the need for
manual record-keeping and sets a precedent for future enhancements, like
real-time synchronization of booking and administrative oversight.

7

d)​ Authentication (Lab 5)
Having authentication in place is critical to allow only registered users to
utilize every function in this application. The registration and login modules were
created in Kort from Lab 5 by using Google Firebase as a way for the application
to authenticate users that have registered for access to the booking system.New
users are required to register by providing an email address and password, which
are then will be stored and managed through Firebase Authentication.
The system verifies all of a user’s credentials and requires them to be
complete and accurate prior to allowing any user to continue logging into the
system or completing the registration process. If any part of the required
information fails validation, then an error message will be presented to the user
and then they will not be able to enter the system. After successful login, users
will be redirected to the main dashboard, at which point they will find all the
features that allow them to make a booking, such as selecting a court, submitting
their booking request, and viewing their booking history through authenticated
access. The authentication function helps to increase the overall security of the
system while providing individualised experiences for each user by restricting
access to all systems to only authenticated users.
e)​ Notification (Lab 6)
Mobile notifications function as essential features because they enhance
user participation while enabling users to receive ongoing updates. The system
uses Lab 6 in Kort to deliver customers booking confirmation and reminder
notifications to their scheduled appointments.
The application will show a confirmation screen after the user completes
their booking request because the system will send a notification to the user
about their successful booking. The system enables users to set reminder
notifications which will notify them about their upcoming booking appointments.
The system helps users remember their appointments better because it provides
them with increased convenience through its features.

8

f)​ Google Maps API (Lab 7)
Map integration is an important feature in mobile applications because it
helps users identify locations easily and improves overall accessibility. In Kort,
Lab 7 is implemented by integrating Google Maps API to display the location of
the sports centre. This feature allows users to view the venue location directly
within the application without needing to search separately using external map
applications.
The system uses a map marker to show the sports centre location when
users open the map page. The system helps users create their travel plans
through this feature which assists first-time visitors and people who lack
knowledge about the area. The map feature enables users to find locations easily
which leads to better user experience during the reservation process until they
reach the sports centre.

5.2 ADDITIONAL FEATURES​
Besides the lab-based features, Kort has also included additional features to
improve the overall functionality of the application.
a) Court Availability Management
Utilising the court availability management functionality of this application
allows users to determine the availability of courts on various days and times.
The inclusion of this functionality will facilitate the avoidance of scheduling
conflicts and double bookings by assisting users in selecting an appropriate
booking time prior to confirming the reservation.

9

b) Structured Booking Validation
The system will validate any booking input information provided by the
user such as court type, before allowing them to continue with the booking
process. As a result, it will prevent the submission of booking requests that are
incomplete or contain incorrect information, thus increasing system reliability and
decreasing user error during the process of reserving courts.
c) User Restricted Display of Bookings
Kort provides users with access to their personal booking information,
only after logging in. This feature provides a greater level of privacy for data and
presents each user with a personalize experience because it shows them
relevant information about their bookings.
d) Calendar-Based Booking View
The application is designed to allow the user a method for being able to
visually view and organize their bookings in a structured way by using a calendar
display. This method will allow users to see both their future and previous
bookings based on the date of the reservation, thus providing greater
transparency for managing time and bookings, without the need for reminder
notifications.

10

6.0 LIMITATIONS OF THE APPLICATION
​
​

Although Kort is designed to improve the sports court booking process, there are

several limitations that may affect the application’s overall functionality and user
experience.
a)​ Single Sports Centre Support
Firstly,the application currently supports only one sports center as its
current operational capability. Users can book courts at the same facility because
the system does not allow them to access multiple venues for booking purposes.
Users who want to check court availability at multiple sports centers must use
different platforms or book their appointments through manual methods. The
Google Maps API integration displays the location of a single sports center but
cannot show multiple venues or enable users to search for other locations.
b)​ Limited System-Integrated Administrative Control
While Kort has implemented Google Firebase as an online database and
administrators are able to manipulate booking and user data in real time from the
Firebase console, the current version of this application contains no
administrative interface integrated into the application itself. Therefore, all
administrative updates must take place outside the application either manually or
via email without having access to role-based security, validation mechanisms, or
any other type of booking management tools. Although these changes will also
be reflected in the application after pulling data from Firebase, this method is
inefficient and can leave the system less secure. Future releases of the system
may provide the development team with a large amount of administrative control
over the system by developing an integrated administrator panel that has access
controls for the administrator, including validation mechanisms and automatic
management of data.

11

7.0 USER INTERFACE​
​

Figure 7.1: Splash Screen, Login Page and Registration Page

The initial screen of the Kort application's user interface is shown in Figure 7.1,
which including the splash screen, the login page, and the registration page. Once the
user launches the Kort application, they will encounter the splash screen which shows
the application logo and branding that is used to give users an introduction and overview
to the system. Registered users can log in to the application from the login page by
entering their email and password. New users must register through the registration
page by entering their personal information and login information like name, email and
password to complete the registration. All three pages allow users to safely log on to the
application and serve as the entry point to use the main booking features.

12

Figure 7.2: Login and Registration Validation Interface

The interface for login and registration validation of the Kort App is shown in
Figure 7.2. The Authentication process contains validation feedback to the user in
real-time. Error messages are displayed when incorrect login credentials have been
inputted and errors if the user has not satisfied registration requirements like password
minimum length, completeness of input. System messages are also displayed on the
screen

confirming

successful

registration or login attempts. These validation

mechanisms will prevent unauthorized users from being able to gain access to the
application, while at the same time will assist the user with correcting input errors prior to
continuing onto the main system

13

Figure 7.3: Main Dashboard Page

After successful authentication, users are brought to the main dashboard as
shown in Figure 7.3. This page acts as the primary navigation point once users have
logged into the application. It shows a collection of sports offered by the Kort application,
including pickleball, badminton, futsal and tennis. The dashboard also contains other
information such as booking history and user profile information, which is accessible
from the main dashboard. The layout of the dashboard is structured in such a way that it
makes it easy for users to select a sport from the dashboard and continue on to the
booking process.

14

Figure 7.4: Court Selection and Booking Details Page

In Figure 7.4, it presents the court selection and booking details pages, which
appear after a user selects a sport from the dashboard.This page shows that when
selecting a court, the user will be shown a list of courts available for the selected sport
based upon respective criteria including the court’s hours of operation, price, etc. When
the user selects a court, they will be directed to the booking details page where they will
be given the option of selecting a date and time for their reservation utilizing a calendar
view of available times. The court selection and booking detail pages provide the user
with the opportunity to verify that they have selected the correct court and have the
appropriate information before confirming their reservation.

15

Figure 7.5: Booking Confirmation Page

Once a user completes the required information for their booking, they will be
taken to the confirmation page of the booking as shown in figure 7.5. This page contains
a summary of the information given for the sport being reserved, and the date, time, and
location of that reservation. From this page, the user can confirm their reservation and
will receive confirmation that it has been successfully submitted to the system.

16

Figure 7.6: Notification and Reminder Interface

After confirmation of a reservation, the system will notify the user of the booking
as a success, and remind them of their future reservations as shown in figure 7.6.
Notifications are sent through the device's notification system, thus providing the user
with information regarding their successful reservation, and upcoming reservation
dates/times. The actions of confirming a reservation will allow for the user to remain
informed and prevent missing a reserved court.

17

Figure 7.7: Booking History Page

Then, through the booking history page as shown in Figure 7.7, users are able to
view all previous and upcoming reservations, identify bookings associated with their
account, and keep track of their ongoing reservations. The ability to see booking history
creates an overall reference point for users to facilitate the management and review of
any of their reservations made using the application.

18

Figure 7.8: Map View and Navigation Interface

Finally, the map and navigation function of Kort using Google Maps API is shown
in Figure 7.8, where the user can see precisely where the selected sports centre is by
using an underlying map displayed within the app. On the map, the user will be able to
locate the sport court by seeing a marker that points to the court and will help guide them
to the actual sport court visually. The navigation function will also provide route and
distance from the user's location to the selected sports centre, as well as provide an
estimate of the travel time to the sport centre. This function will let to provide assistance
in finding and navigating to the selected location without having to search for directions
outside of the app.

19

Figure 7.9: Firebase Authentication User Records

The Firebase Authentication backend records of the Kort app are shown in
Figure 7.9. This figure shows that user registrations and logins are correctly recorded in
Firebase. Each user has their own set of registration and login credentials that enable
the system to effectively manage security of authenticated access by managing it in a
centrally stored and managed way using the Firebase backend. Thus, this backend
implementation supports the user interface authentication features described above
through central management and storage of user accounts versus local management
and storage within the application itself.

20

Figure 7.10: Firebase Realtime Database Storing Booking Information

The Firebase Realtime Database in the Kort App as shown in Figure 7.10 is
being used for the storage of data related to the reservation of sports courts. The
information that is stored such as sport type, court number, date, and time is
automatically saved to the database after the user has completed their reservation
through the app. By having all of the reservations stored in one place, in an online
database, users can access their reservations from multiple devices and user data can
be organized in ways that would be impossible by using local file systems. The
successful integration of an online database for supporting the management of
reservations demonstrates the potential for future development of features like real-time
updates or administrator monitoring.

21

8.0 REFLECTION
8.1 CHALLENGES
During the development of Kort, we have been facing some challenges such as:
●​ Designing consistent UI layouts across different pages.​
●​ Implementing database operations such as insert, update, and retrieve booking
history.​
●​ Handling authentication validation and ensuring secure login flow.​
●​ Implementing notifications correctly across different Android versions.​
●​ Integrating Google Maps API and ensuring the sports centre location is displayed
correctly on the map.

8.2 LESSONS LEARNED
Through this project, we have learn:
●​ How to apply Android Studio development skills in a complete application.​
●​ How to integrate multiple lab activities into one functional system.​
●​ How to improve teamwork and manage development tasks efficiently.​
●​ How to test mobile applications and fix bugs systematically.​
●​ How to prepare a complete project report and documentation.

22

9.0 CONCLUSION​
To sum up, the Kort app is a mobile phone application designed for Android
phone users that aids in the organized booking of sports courts. The Kort app has all the
essential features of an effective booking system which allows users to select a sports
court, reserve a sports court, see their reservation history, using both offline (SQLite’s
local storage) and online (Google Firebase's online database) methods. Because of
Firebase, the user and booking information can be accessed on multiple devices,
thereby lessening the need for paper or other forms of record-keeping. Automated
booking confirmation notifications and reminder notifications will also be sent, along with
the integration of the Google Maps API to assist users in finding the sports centre.
Through Kort, users may avoid typical problems associated with manual booking
processes, such as double bookings, missing reservations, and inefficient management
of reservations. These problems are solved by the inclusion of the essential components
of a mobile application including user interface design, user authentication, offline and
online databases, navigation map and notification functionality. This demonstrates that
the Kort app can provide users with practical and user-friendly ways to book sports.
Kort presently can only support the use of one sports center at a time, and does
not have a multi-venue booking feature. There is also currently unavailable for the user
to see the location of multiple sports Centres through the map feature. Additionally, while
a cloud-based database exists, advanced features such as real-time synchronization,
integrated admin control and automatic booking management are not available in their
entirety. Future enhancements like adding multiple venue support, improving real-time
synchronization, along with implementing admin side control could greatly enhance the
scalability and effectiveness of the application.

23

10.0 REFERENCES
Kumar, R., & Sharma, V. (2021). Design and development of mobile-based reservation
systems for service management. International Journal of Computer Applications,
174(9), 15–20.
Laudon, K. C., & Laudon, J. P. (2020). Management information systems: Managing the
digital firm (16th ed.). Pearson Education.
Pressman, R. S., & Maxim, B. R. (2020). Software engineering: A practitioner’s
approach (9th ed.). McGraw-Hill Education.
Android Developers. (2023). Android application architecture and data storage.
https://developer.android.com

11.0 APPENDICES
a)​ GITHUB LINK:
https://github.com/DerrickR0se1/Kort-App
b)​ GOOGLE DRIVE LINK:
ICT602 GROUP 2 (KORT)

24

